We
were talking about the trolley
coming in from Bryan and I believe you mentioned on
busy days they pulled a trailer. Where did they
store that trailer? In Bryan just east of the
Location of the Brown Eagle,
where the Brown Eagle is at present.
Do you remember how long that trolley continued to
run? I do not recall. I know it was after you
graduated. I thought maybe since you had remained
in the area, you would have perhaps remembered.
But that's a, it's not. I remember when it
discontinued, but I don't recall the year. OK.
Were there other things that students did? We've
talked about going to Bryan. We've talked about
the movies, that there was a swimming pool in
Hawaii. There were sports, intramural sports or
battalion sports. What about inside their
dormitories? I know that they had a quiet hour
during the evening when they had to study, but
during the day, did they do anything inside for
entertainment?
I don't recall, except perhaps card games, a few.
Some did a lot of sleeping, of course. I had one
roommate who had that reputation, but I guess
that's what caused me to think about that. Well, I
know when I was in school, there were a number of
boys who did a fair amount of sleeping during the
afternoons. Of course, at that point, they could
do carousing at night, but I imagine you were
controlled, so you really couldn't do much
carousing at night. It seems to me that the study
was from 7.30 until
11 o'clock. Taps are 11 o'clock. Did you not have
a... tattoo and then a free period of a few minutes
and then taps, or? Yes. You had that, huh? Okay, so
that was primarily kind of a preliminary warning
that it was about time to go to bed, is that it?
That's right. Okay. Did you have any favorite
instructors during your student days? And if so,
who were they and why?
Dr. Silvey, to me, was one of the outstanding
instructors. He was head of physics department,
and I was fortunate in having him. But I had many
good instructors, I thought. And
in veterinary medicine, of course. after I came
back in the fall of 23 to take veterinary medicine,
I thought Dr. Francis and Dr. Leonard were
outstanding as instructors.
You mentioned coming back to vet medicine.
Before I finished, Dr. Biltsing, head of
entomology, I thought was an excellent
instructor.
Mr. Stangle, frequently
called Runt Stangle, who is a retired dean of
agriculture at Texas Tech, was outstanding.
There were many others.
What I was about to ask, at what point did you decide
to go on for your degree in vet medicine?
I had a course under Dr. Francis in
my junior year in animal husbandry and a course
under Dr. Marsteller and Dr. Leonard in my senior
year. Those courses
caused me to think that I would like to. take
veterinary medicine mainly as a good combination
with animal husbandry,
especially the course of Dr. Francis.
Then I finished in January 1926 and went to
Beaumont until September the 10th, 1926.
You received your bachelor's in the spring of 23,
right? That's right, May 19, 23. And came back the
following fall and enrolled in vet medicine.
That's right. Did you have to apply well in advance
for vet medicine, or was there not the competition
then as there is now? Well, I don't know whether
I've gotten in on the present conditions, but,
requirements, but No, I don't recall
writing about it. I just came in. I knew that they
would like to have some students.
I didn't have any difficulty at all.
Okay, let's get back to your undergraduate day for
a minute. We know that a lot of students had
part-time employment while they were here. Did
you have any jobs of any sort? Not while I was taking
animal husbandry. I did work and lived at the
veterinary hospital
from 1925-26.
So one year you lived in the hospital and worked
there? From
June 1924 through January 1926. At
the point that you were in the school of vet
medicine, were their semesters the same as the
rest of the college? Yes. Okay, so you had summer
off then? Yes. Did you have employment during the
summers?
Well, in the summer of, I worked at home
in the, except the summer of 21, I worked for
Lackawanna Farms owned by Frank Schofield at
Hillsboro on a shorthand. farm. It was a show herd.
I worked up there to gain some experience.
The other summers I worked at home on the
farm.
One of the things that I have felt that makes Texas
A&M a somewhat unique institution of the
traditions that are carried on by the student
body, and now I suppose more by the Corps of Cadets
than anybody else. I think of things like y'all
practice, silver taps, bonfire, such things as
that. Did you have these things during your
student days? Yes. We had silver taps and we had
bonfires. Where was the bonfire at the time you
were a student? Held in the center of the, what we
called the old drill field out in front of the MSC,
between MSC and Law and Prairie. Was that all four
years? Yes. What was the nature of the bonfire at
that point? What kind of materials did you make it
out of? A little of everything, but not on the big
scale that they do now.
Was it done primarily by the freshmen, or did
everybody pitch in and do some of it? No, I think all
the classes helped on it.
But it was a very small-scale affair, more of a
trash fire. A big bonfire. Well, but even then it
was for the University of Texas at Thanksgiving.
That is right. Preceded the University of Texas.
What about a muster? Did you have a muster on campus
during your student days? Not that I recall.
I noted in your senior yearbook that you were
president of the Turkey Trot Club. What was that
organization? Of course, being from Cuero, we
were known as, that's where the original Turkey
Trot was held, and the first one was held in 1912.
It's just the name of the county or the A&M Club. It
was actually a DeWitt County club. So it was a
hometown club? Yes, a hometown club.
So you indicated you finished your vet medicine
degree in January? January 1926. 1926.
Did you join the faculty here immediately then?
No, I went to Beaumont where I was in veterinary
practice with Dr. J.G. Kerr.
For how long? until September the 10th. I was
supposed to
start here in September the 1st, but Dr. Kerr was on
vacation, the first vacation he had taken in
years, and I didn't want to interrupt that. I had
had a letter from Dr. Francis
in the middle of August. He had a resignation. in
the staff and asked if I was interested. He said,
don't use the telephone. He, of course, was hard of
hearing. So I got busy. I was going from 5 or 6 in the
morning till 11 o'clock at night. And then I had a
telephone call from Dr. Marsteller asking me when
I was going to answer that letter. Or when I
decided, I said, I'm not qualified, Dr.
Marsteller. I'd like to take some graduate work.
And I'd like to take it for about three years.
And
so he said, well, I'll tell the dean. And I said,
well, I'll get a note off time. And after he talked
to me. So I've been here ever since. How did you
resolve your feeling that you weren't qualified
and your decision finally to accept the position?
Well, I took some
summers off and went to Iowa State, what is now Iowa
State University at Ames and the University of
Chicago. the University of Michigan and the
University of Texas, and took some specialized
courses. In vet medicine? No. At
Iowa State, I took poisonous plants and physical
chemistry
and the biochemistry that was offered to
veterinary students.
They had a summer class that year.
And the physical chemistry was really
biophysical, which I used a great deal after I came
back.
At the University of Michigan, I took courses in
physiology
and physiological chemistry, those two courses.
At the University of Chicago, I took physiology
and biochemistry.
At the University of Texas, I took physics. Having
had physics here with Dr. Silvey, I thought
perhaps that I was going a little bit too strong in
biochemistry for our physiology students, and I
decided I'd take a course in physics
to see if there were any new developments so that I
wouldn't lean too heavily on the chemistry part.
After all, physiology is a combination of physics
and chemistry. that's applied, physics and
chemistry.
I still didn't think I had enough graduate work,
but I got too busy.
I believe, what, you've been here, what, nine
years when you became head of the, no, yeah, head of
the department and professor. 35, yes. In
veterinary physiology and pharmacology. That's
right. And you held that position until you
retired then in 67.
Well, I was head until through 1966. Uh-huh. And
then I was a professor in the department from
September 1, 1966 through August 31, 1967. So you
stepped down as head and taught one more year. Yes.
As head of the department, how much teaching did
you do?
I don't recall the number of hours. In some cases,
over 20 hours. sometimes with as many as four
courses. We had heavy teaching loads.
With a smaller... And later on, as I got help, the
first help I got was in 1936.
And
then when I retired in 66, I think there were Four of
us, as I recall. So the department grew from one to
four? Oh yes, now it's about 15 or 16 of them. Oh
gracious. Has the student body increased that
much since 67 to justify that? Well, they've gone
from 64 students to 128. So it's doubled. Yes.
In just, since 66?
At least more
than double, I'd say.
What I was starting to say earlier, since you have a
smaller student body in the School of Appomattox
and now the College of Appomattox, and you did not
have as much administrative responsibility,
say, as the head of the Department of Civil
Engineering. Oh, no, far from it. If a
student in medicine, does he major in one of the
departments in the school or college? No, not
through the three
years of trimesters. No, there's no
specialization. Specialization.
Specialization will come only in graduate work.
In other words, if he would come back for a PhD in vet
medicine, then he would come back for, say, a PhD
major in physiology and pharmacology or
veterinary surgery? Well, it's physiology and
toxicology now. Toxicology is handled in the
physiology department.
There's a Ph.D. in Physiology and there's a Ph.D.
in Toxicology.
And then they have Ph.D.s in the other
departments, Anatomy and Microbiology,
Pathology, Public Health. But when you joined the
Vet Medicine faculty in 26, you were the only one in
the area of physiology and pharmacology.
Correct. And you remained that for ten years,
right? I believe you said in 1936 you finally got
some help.
That's
right. Let me start all over again.
When you, particularly in your early years of
teaching, did you have some research
responsibilities in addition to your teaching
load? No. What about during the summers? Did you do
research then? Yes, yes we could. We had courses
sometimes offered in the summer. One summer, I
taught a course for Dr. Francis and two
students, a course on anatomy and physiology.
This would be not medicine students. No. This
would be like animal husbandry or students in
Texas A&M College. As opposed to the School of Vet
Medicine? That's right, service courses.
Uh-huh. Did, while you were... However, we had
some courses offered in the summer for repeaters.
I do not recall how many. I think it took five to get a
course in the summertime. We had some summer
classes that way. That would have been fairly
infrequent, though, I take it. Yes.
Well, let me back this up again. You mentioned
earlier having like maybe as many as 20 hours of
teaching load. More than 20. More than 20. How much
of that was in the School of Vet Medicine and how
much of that was to undergraduates?
Most of it in veterinary medicine. I had
one service course for animal husbandry
students.
And then
Dr. Ball wanted to offer a course in physiology for
biology majors and pre-med students.
And we had a double entry on those two courses, 341,
342. They were in biology 341, biology 342. And the
same course was VPP 341, VPP 342. But I did the
teaching entirely, except one year, I think that
was in 32, I believe, John Milliff handled it that
year.
And then...
When Penberthy came here in the fall of 26,
they got interested in developing a curriculum
for physical education.
And Mr. Friely, who was registrar and dean of the
graduate college, asked me to work up a course
And I work up the course, and
he said, now will you teach it?
So I fell out to the physical ed, the way I handled
it. We signed them up for 341.
And then they would drop out after one semester.
And then the science students and pre-med
students would continue into 342.
So that didn't make it so hard. Did you continue
teaching in both medicine students and
undergraduates through your whole career?
That's right. Right. However, in the last few
years, I handled the animal husbandry, the
service course to animal husbandry majors and
dairy science majors and poultry science majors.
and the course in toxicology.
I think the last course in veterinary physiology I
handled was to the class that graduated in 53
or 54, something like that. Is that a general
practice throughout the current College of Vet
Medicine that people out there teach both vet
students and undergraduates? Not necessarily,
no. Some of them teach solely veterinary
students.
In the physiology department, for example, I
think Dr. Claiborne handles the ag students.
And some of them teach pharmacology alone. And
some teach only physiology and have several in
that category. Well, of course, with the
tremendous growth in
student enrollment, why I think this probably
permits more specialization of the faculty. It's
much better now than it used to be. And you
mentioned earlier there were
Did you say a hundred and how many students?
We went from 64 to 128. And then
do you have people working on a PhD in vet medicine
in addition to that? Oh yes,
they are not counted in that 128. Those are the ones
who enter on the trimester basis. Working on their
PhD, they would work on the semester basis. I see.
They enrolled through the regular graduate
school? Yes. I see. Okay.
We teach the service courses like town husbandry.
or Animal Science now. That's on a semester basis.
I teach on semester and trimester both. So you kind
of have to keep your time straight. That's right.
And graduate courses on semester.
Are your service courses that you taught for both
graduates and undergraduates?
Yes, I had a graduate course on
several occasions, but most of them were
undergraduates.
I had an old newspaper clipping, I think, about the
time you retired. I think it was a write-up about a
party which they gave for you, and I believe I've
got this quoted fairly directly here that said,
you were best known for development of toxicology
through which you made national contributions
and designed a reference system made available to
students. What kind of reference system was this?
Mainly a card index file. that was free for
students to use. And they would come in and use it.
They were free to use it. I had it on my desk. They
were as free to use it as I was. This would be a file
where if they had needed information on a specific
topic, they could come check the index file, and
this would guide them to the source material.
That's right.
Does that system still exist over in the School of
Medicine? I do not know. You didn't take it with you
when you left? Yes, I took it with me because I have
been on several consulting cases. I see. And that
was my source of information. And one was a court
case, and the other one was, I don't know whether
it's still pending or not, But
I needed those cards for that purpose or they'll
eventually end up out there.